1. Conscious Cogn. 2022 Feb;98:103282. doi: 10.1016/j.concog.2022.103282. Epub 2022 
Jan 24.

Error awareness and post-error slowing: The effect of manipulating trial 
intervals.

Dali G(1), Orr C(2), Hester R(2).

Author information:
(1)Melbourne School of Psychological Sciences, The University of Melbourne, 
Parkville 3010, Vic., Australia. Electronic address: gezelledali@gmail.com.
(2)Melbourne School of Psychological Sciences, The University of Melbourne, 
Parkville 3010, Vic., Australia.

Post-error slowing is often considered to be an error-related process that 
relies upon conscious error recognition, however evidence regarding this 
relationship is mixed. These inconsistent findings may be explained by the 
influence of task demands on post-error slowing. The current set of experiments 
aimed to investigate the role of error awareness in post-error slowing in an 
error awareness task with up to three dynamic conditions. In each condition, we 
manipulated the interval between lure trials (infrequent trials that require a 
different response to target trials) such that they were presented either 
randomly (standard condition), closely spaced (proximal condition) or widely 
spaced (distal condition) among target trials. This design attempted to clarify 
if the relationship between error awareness and post-error slowing is contingent 
upon task constraints such as trial timing and whether it persists over several 
trials. Our experiments demonstrate that under dynamic lure interval conditions, 
error awareness and post-error slowing are only weakly related. Further, 
post-error slowing was greatest in the standard condition which randomly 
presented lure trials, while accuracy was lowest in this condition across both 
experiments. Exclusion of the first post-error trial from both experiments 
eliminated all effects, indicating that there were only transient differences in 
post-error reaction time adjustments that were exclusive to the first post-error 
trial. Our findings thus align with non-functional accounts of post-error 
slowing and support the notion that post-error slowing and cognitive control can 
be separate processes that are largely not dependent on error awareness.

Copyright © 2022 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.concog.2022.103282
PMID: 35085977 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2. Endocrine. 2021 Mar;71(3):537-538. doi: 10.1007/s12020-020-02602-z. Epub 2021 
Jan 15.

Introduction to Endo-ERN-scope and mission.

Pereira AM(1), Hiort O(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Division of Endocrinology and Centre for Endocrine 
Tumors Leiden (CETL), Leiden University Medical Centre, Leiden, the Netherlands. 
a.m.pereira@lumc.nl.
(2)Division of Paediatric Endocrinology and Diabetes, Department of Paediatrics 
and Adolescent Medicine, University of Lübeck, Lübeck, Germany.

The official installation of the European Reference Networks in 2017 formed the 
foundation to improve quality and safety and access to highly specialized health 
care across the EU for patients affected by rare or low prevalence and complex 
conditions. The European Reference Network on Rare Endocrine Conditions 
(Endo-ERN) covers specific expertise from birth to senescence with a specific 
governance structure characterized by both a pediatric and an adult chair, and 
equal responsibilities for patient representatives and health care providers. 
The introduction on the scope and mission of Endo describes the complexity of 
the Endo-ERN mission and will thrive toward the ultimate aim and mission of the 
network of reducing health care inequalities across Europe. Specific knowledge 
and medical expertise of the existing rare endocrine condition is urgently 
needed, and therefore, raising awareness for Rare Disease Day from the Endo-ERN 
perspective is imperative.

DOI: 10.1007/s12020-020-02602-z
PMCID: PMC7809090
PMID: 33449294 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflict 
of interest.


3. Perspect Psychol Sci. 2018 Mar;13(2):161-165. doi: 10.1177/1745691618754502.

The Error-Related Negativity, Self-Monitoring, and Consciousness.

Dehaene S(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)1 Experimental Cognitive Psychology, Collège de France, Paris.
(2)2 INSERM-CEA Cognitive Neuroimaging Unit, NeuroSpin Center, Saclay, France.

The error-related negativity (ERN) is a negative waveform that arises over the 
front of the scalp immediately after a participant makes a detectable error. The 
goal of this short article is to describe my serendipitous encounter with this 
brain signal in 1993-1994 and to briefly review the operation of the underlying 
error-monitoring system. Recent work suggests that the ERN reflects an internal 
comparison, by the anterior cingulate cortex, of two signals: an unconscious 
representation of the ongoing action and a conscious representation of the 
intended one.

DOI: 10.1177/1745691618754502
PMID: 29592636
